---
title: "Gearing up"
date: 2019-04-22T01:37:56+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["detailing","DitchedImpreza"]
categories: ["Detailing Buisness"]
author: "Shawn"


---

I'm slowly gearing up for the detailing business. I'm trying to maintain a shoestring budget, but I also want to deliver strong results without the requirement of a hose/outlet, so there's going to have to be a comprimise somewhere along the line. I did get my first card/flyer designed, but before I send it off to the printers I need to get the domain purchased and verify all my links are working. It would be a waste to get 500+ cards printed and find out the url needs to change slightly.

I started an spreadsheet to track the startup costs, I'll try to link that in the future but for now it lists the following:

Item | Cost
----|----
Site Template	| $19.00
Snow nozzle	| $17.98
Micro Applicators	| $8.99
Bead Maker	| $38.95
Wash Mitt	| $6.99
Hoseless Wash	| $9.99
**TOTAL** | $101.09


I've got a lot of detailing cleaners already at my disposal but haven't been too impressed with any of the waxes I've tried so far. "Bead Maker" is a polymer paint sealant that I see a lot of people raving about, so I ordered some of that and hopefully will add a nice wow factor for the customer. Another thing I need is some clay bars that don't break the bank. Most cost effective I saw in retail stores was $19.99 for only 2 bars. I estimate that would only last a car or two, and could cut into my profits pretty badly. Opting for some decent quality ones online, I have four on the way for $12 and change. That seems like something I can work with.

With that I should be nearly set on basic cleaning needs, but I haven't addressed some of the big ticket costs and challenges yet. I think this is what I still need to figure out:

+ Water transportation
+ Generator
+ portable pressure washer
+ Shop-vac

Ideally I'd like to service any car without hooking up to a hose or power, I think I can figure out how to transport water easily enough, I'm thinking I'll have two checkboxes for customers to confirm if they have power and water at the cleaning location in the scheduling app and see how long it takes for someone to book with no water/power.

If I can book a few customers without purchasing a generator that would help me guage how often it might be needed, and allow me to generate some money so purchasing one without spending directly out of personal funds.

I'm spending a good amount of time on the site and marketing plan. I'm banking heavily on my plan to project profesionalism through the site and flyers so customers who are considering my business for the first time are comfortable with the prices I'm asking.