---
title: "Tell me you're dreaming"
date: 2017-04-01T01:37:56+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["DitchedImpreza"]
categories: ["Salvage Repair"]
author: "Shawn"


---

My co-worker is still imagining paying $3000 for the Subaru, which means I would loose $200 instantly and roughly $600 in labor. So I listed it for $3800 expecting people to offer me $3600. One person showed up yesterday, which is nice when they show up. She was highly knowledgable and her brother works on Subarus, so I thought it would be a great fit, she offered $3000 and even when I went all the way down to $3450 she wouldn't go for it.

I've come the the conclusion that without a dealership, bodyshop, wholesaler license, or some other setup, this is not very sustainable as a fulltime job.

# Update:

I showed the DitchedImpreza to two more people but got similiar or no offers. My Dad also showed it to someone who wanted it inspected by their father and a mechanic. I can understand all that but all of this eats a lot of time and in my opinion if you want someone to inspect, bring them with you the first time. I have never and will never understand people who want to check the vehicle out multiple times. It all seems a bit much for a $3000-ish car.

So after getting fedup with Craigslist buyers, I coordinated with my friend to take a look at it. Unfourntinately he too is super cautious, and wanted **ME** to drive it to his mechanic. Because I know him and wanted to make the sale, I agree'd. 2 hours later, we shook on $3100 + an agreement that I would buy it back if the engine blew up or caught fire. The mechanic discovered that the transmision fluid drain plug was only on hand tight, and was running a little low on ATF. This put my friend on edge and made the deal even more precarious from his perspective.

I threw in a oil change and ATF top-off, to sweeten an already sweetheart deal. But I did get it sold...