---
title: "Ratio Bidding Emergence"
date: 2017-03-26T01:37:56+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["ratio bidding"]
categories: ["Car Auction"]
author: "Shawn"


---

Today I ran some of the numbers on some of my best auction buys; that is, the buys that left me a lot of room to pay for all the parts, my own labor, and fees without stressing the budget value of the car and I found they all cost me at bid about `4.4x` or better than the total value of the car. For example the KIA Rondo is valued around $4,300 and was won on a $825 bid. 4300/825≈5.2

That Rondo is undoubtedly my best buy and a few things played a factor in how I was able to get it that cheap, but this gives me a good starting point for not overpaying at auction. I ran the same model on the car I'm most suspect about. I bid and won $2,000 on a 2006 Subaru Impreza and found out it needed a lot more repairs that I originally expected. It has a value of approximate $4,000 on a good day, realistically less. Even in that best case scenario 4000/2000≈2.0

So I made a little model to run the numbers in reverse, what **would** have been the correct bid amount on this vehicle? Now `5.0x` under value is a dream deal; I ran some numbers on the most hotly contested cars, Toyotas. I found that those often went around `2.0x`-`2.5x` under the market price, so I'm thinking those guys either really know what they are doing, or are man on the street bids trying to get a Toyota for themselves without any need to make profit. My main takeaway was that I want to place my bids somewhere in the `3.5x`-`5.5x` range

Table |
----|
4000***3.5**≈1143 |
4000***4.0**≈1000 |
4000***4.5**≈889 |
4000***5.0**≈800 |
4000***5.5**≈727 |

As you can see, I should have really started questioning any bid over 1200. But to be fair I did not think from the pictures that any repair was needed. Punishment for not checking out the car in person ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯

I did all the calculations in a Google spreadsheet and can now drop the `Estimated Market Value` in one cell and get all my safe bidding amounts without clicking anywhere else. I'm planning to extend it a little, I left a cell labeled `Estimated Parts Cost` which would also factor in my hourly rate for every hundred dollars in parts or something; but for now this should save me from getting into bidding wars and overpaying based on optimistic math in my head.

While I'm still searching for a brand/model to specialize in, I broke out my huge Excel sheet and made a copy to view what bid factor other people were paying. Sadly I can't populate every single line in Excel with the market price easily as they sorta need to be looked up by hand, but it's possible a bit of scripting work could solve that at some point. I was a little sad to see the Hyundai SUVs in the `1.4x`-`3.2x` range. With this model I would have ***maybe*** won one that went to someone else at `3.2x`

On a different note, I was so confident in this new system that I went out and checked my two pre-auction bids way up. While I'm fairly sure I take both home, I think there is a chance I could win one.

2011 Nissan Xterra - $1,850 (`4.0x`)

2008 Toyota Yaris - $875 (`4.0x`)

Those are very optimistic bids, but if like the Rondo people are scared off by the amount of repair they need, I could get one. I'd actually like to bid the Xterra way more aggressively, because I know for a fact that there is a matching color one that just arrived in the junkyard (I already nabbed the grill) but I just don't have the cash right now to do it comfortably. There's a few more black Xterras coming down the pipe so while I still have some time to raise capital, it's a good kick in the butt to get some things done on my daily driver and move the other inventory. I think for today I'll just sit back and see how things shake out even though I'd be comfortable bidding those to `3.5x` or maybe even `3.0x`

It's a little silly that it's taken me 5 cars to remember how important markup is when buying/selling. I'll be refining the model depending on how it performs in the real world. Expect more posts on this matter, I'll be tagging them with `ratio bidding`.


#Update:

Xterra went for $1,850 (`4.0x` on the dot o.O;) lost, onsite bidders get priority and I didn't feel like getting another Xterra before mine is sold.

Yaris went for $425 (`8.0x`) **WON**, totally surprised me, I was expecting this to go for at least $875 being a toyota, probably need to run some numbers on manual transmissions but it doesn't bother me at all. I want a manual so I may end up driving it for a while if it needs time to sell.