---
title: "This time for real"
date: 2017-04-21T01:37:56+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["DitchedImpreza","WalkAwayXterra"]
categories: ["Car Life","Salvage Repair"]
author: "Shawn"


---

Ordered a licience plate relocation kit for the Impreza, I think that + a little touchup paint will really set the car off in a whole new direction. I gave it a killer oil change since it's back at my place now. Ever since I found out you can't use think LUCAS with variable valve timing engines, I've switched to dumping a whole 16oz bottle of Marvel Mystery Oil in. So far it's worked really well for me and I can get a bottle of that for under $5.

I wanted to cover some of the little regular plate holes with some paint-matched stickers but I googled the regular company and they want $59.99 for one little sheet. That seems absurdly high. I googled around a little more and the lowest I can find is about $30, still way too high in my opinion. If I can find a staight piece of chrome or square metal maybe I'll make my own blockout, because I don't think filler+paint will work well.


On my Xterra I finally got around to replacing the leaky and constantly breaking heater plastic. Looks like none too soon as upon taking pictures I discover a nice big crack forming. Passangers have noticed the occasional drip still comming from the heater so after a short debate with myself I decided to put a more aggresive stop-leak in the coolant system. I began to panic as the car ceased blowing warm air; I took it around the block but still nothing. Sqeezing the hoses it didn't feel very pressurized so I'm thinking the system is clogged somewhere or not enough fluid is in the system.

After some other chores and letting the engine cool down, I added distilled water and finally got the heat going again. I raised the front end as high as I could with my smaller jack and couldn't add anymore. It doesn't any sense to me how I can add back the exact fluid I took out and run into issues like this. Bubbles be wierd. Come to think of it I also replaced the radiator cap after catching a pretty powerful leak the other day, maybe I lost more than I realize and obviously don't use the heat very much as things are getting warmer outside.