---
title: "You're kidding"
date: 2017-04-17T01:37:56+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["detailing"]
categories: ["Detailing Buisness","Salvage Repair"]
author: "Shawn"


---

I'm studying and wrestling with the challenges and risks of opening a dealership, one challenge and corresponding opportunity I am identifying is the fact that drive-by traffic is not the primary way people buy cars these days, a web presence I believe is crucial but how do you ensure average joe looking for a car finds your ads and site when there are other big sites users are more likely to flock to.

I know a lot of dealers seem to have sites that are often out of date or have a monthly subscription. I imagine with a lot of 10-20 cars keeping it up to date must burn a lot of time uploading pictures and filling out information.

My idea is to create a solution that allows the dealer to drop a simple txt file and pictures into a folder and near-instantly get their site up to date. Ideally it would plug that data into some car searching sites but I think don't think that is very realistic after browsing the api offerings. Perhaps another opportunity exists there but I have to think I'm not the first person to take a whack at 'modern car buying search api'

I have heard an adage that you make more money selling shovels than digging for gold, and to me that means you can make good profit selling tools to other people trying to make money. For example I once saw an individual describe how he made more money teaching people how to sell on eBay than his own eBay sales. So I will absolutely be pursuing some kind of solution. The big question to me is can I balance the time it takes to make with how much money it can bring in. Building software is difficult and highly time consuming. It doesn't make sense if it takes me 100 hours to make and I only find one buyer.


## DitchedImpreza

Yesterday my buddy with the Impreza called and informed me that he was so uncomfortable with the highway vibrations that he wants to split a $1000 repair costs with me or return the car. He spent money figuring out that the problem is being caused by both sides have compromised wheel bearings. This makes sense to me, the accident was intense and I have no doubt the bearings took some of the blow. Obviously I'm not paying someone $1000 for a repair I can perform easily enough. I agreed to take the car back, which I'm honestly a little excited by. The Impreza would work quite well for my detailing business or I think I could get $3600 for it just waiting long enough.

Since both sides need work, double all these numbers in your head. Brand new wheel hubs are $80, the bearing kit by themselves with new seals, clips, etc are $33 but would take who knows how long in labor to press out, but I called my buddy who recomended a place that must not cooperate with car-part.com, because I've never seen them listed, wants $40 a piece but will sell me the whole wheel knuckle. 'What the heck I'll try em' and that's the route I'm taking this time. 