---
title: "Parking Worries"
date: 2017-03-31T01:37:56+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["ratio bidding"]
categories: ["Salvage Repair"]
author: "Shawn"


---

I regret dropping the Yaris on the street and not in my dedicated parking area, because now it's stuck where it is. Even if I rented the dolly again I highly doubt I could drive it on there without complications. So in order to get it moving again it needs a new steel rim+wheel; I got that all taken care of, but the wheel would probably pop itself if I tried to drive even 10 feet. The main thing that's got the wheel out of position is the badly bent control arm. I ordered a new one and put it on rush shipping but 2 days later it still hasn't been picked up yet.

My first idea was to yank on the control arm with the WalkAwayXterra connected via a steel cable, but I have a feeling this would either break the cable, damage something else, or do nothing. My next idea was to pull the control arm out, which needs to be done anyways, and hammer it well enough to limp into valid parking. Then get the new part(s) in when they arrive.

I started with the easiest bolt first; which I may need to stop doing because it only sets me up for escalating aggravation later. This control arm is held in with two bolts and a ball-joint. The 2nd bolt has very little clearance with the oil pan, but with enough prying it came out. Then I got stuck on the ball joint, Unlike the Subaru I could not hammer down on the nut because it is directly under the axel. I also couldn't get enough prying action because I don't have the right fork tool at my condo. What I ended up doing is putting the wheel back on the car, then quickly dropping the jack so that the car put enough weight on the control arm and popped it out.

At one point I began to worry that removing the control arm would require the whole subframe be dropped a few inches. It sounds crazy and that design would be terrible, but because the bushings were so flush with the frame I seriously thought I might be out of luck replacing the arm in the field. Around this time is when the costs started piling up in my mind and I began to think I may just have to cut my losses and have a junkyard come pick it up. I think the takeaway is that I need a more predictable garage or workspace to field initial repairs. The amount of times I've said "a lift would make this 10 times easier" to myself is ridiculous, but is still a very long way off.

# Update:

The control arm arrived! It must have rode on a plane because according to tracking data it was picked up early this morning in Ohio and on my doorstep by the time I got home at 2:00 PM.

I gathered up all the tools I might need and walked over. I had a small audience of children watching me as I worked. I worked quickly while they offer repeated *"The car is broken!"* encouragements. It took a bit of work to get the last bolt in, which aligns in a colision corse with the oilpan, but using some wood with my jack, I was able to lift the engine precious milimeters of clearance to thread in.

I do need to stop saving the hardest bolt for last, as it throws my time estimates off, but once everthing was together my daughter and I were able to start the car and hobble into our condo's dedicated parking. As I fought with the terrible stearing, I also had to combat rusty manual shifting combined with what felt like a thousand concered onlookers. Need I remind you that this car now has a missing fender, smashed and tire-marked bumper, crooked hood and missing headlight.

The good news however, is that I can finally sleep without worry of a late night tow.