---
title: "Tell me about Plan B"
date: 2017-04-15T01:37:56+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["detailing"]
categories: ["Detailing Buisness"]
author: "Shawn"


---

Today is tax day and I've always been a last minute person. Although I tried what I could not give the US government an interest free loan, it looks like I did. The good news is I'm getting that refund and I'm hoping to use some of it to take the next step in my car activities.

I've been looking at two things, one is to get that dealer's license and go full-blown dealer. That's a big investment and frankly not one I can afford alone. It's also a big risk. A less risky idea I've been pouring a lot of time and energy on is mobile detailing. I think they naturally fit well together; Dealer auction is going to get more cars that run and don't need body-work, but do need detailing.

Another good thing about mobile detailing is that I can test it out for $400-$2000 part-time. So what I've got done so far in order is:

1. Checked out the competition around here bought a template site that is better than theirs - $19
+ Filled out prices, pictures, etc. Edited HTML to fit my needs
+ Researched a lot of technique and broke down into 3 different packages. A 2 hour version, a 4 hour, and a 7 hour
+ Made a plan on marketing and target customers
+ Worked out 2 quick logos and names. Went with the 2nd one that I liked better

The plan for today is to get a little bit of maintenance stuff done on the sold DitchedImpreza, then get one or two print jobs sent to VistaPrint so I can hopefully start putting them into the field on my next weekend.
