---
title: "Refining Ratio Bidding"
date: 2017-03-30T01:37:56+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["ratio bidding"]
categories: ["Car Auction"]
author: "Shawn"


---

I'm browsing the auction site today and I see that Xterra on the again today with a $2200 (`2.5x`) BuyItNow pricetag.
I've decided to only go with the Private Party Value because anything else is just fooling myself. So this ratio is a little off from my first blog post.
I'd like to know what the deal is with these vehicles that show up the next day with a slightly higher BuyItNow price, I probably just need to ask the right question but I do not think it's something for regular people to do. The seller is still listed as "Progressive Casualty Insurance" Maybe its something the company does when they see something isn't going to sell.

A little while back I started noticing damage to one or two body panels was a lot different to deal with than three panels, especially in the cost and labor department. That Xterra Needs 2 fenders, a hood, and probably a new bumper/grill. By my count that is four, not even taking into account whatever might be damaged behind the bumper cover. Oh did I mention both airbags are deployed? I haven't worked out a good bidding ratio tied to estimated cost of parts and labor yet but here's my thinking at the moment

Factor Bid | Damage
----|----
`3.0x` | 0 panels damaged
`3.5x` | 0 or 1
`4.0x` | 0 or 1
`4.5x` | 1 or 2
`5.0x` | 1 or 2
`5.5x` | 2 or 3

Obviously this doesn't account for every situation but I think could be refined somewhat to give a good rule of thumb. When I put the $425 (5.4) Yaris up to this measurement. That car needs at least 3 panels plus the pillar/door damage addressed. Throw on the wheel and suspension damage, it doesn't look highly profitable from these numbers. These might be a little too optimistic. I imagine I'm competing with established shops that have someone on staff that can paint panels almost at will.

The good news is, Yaris parts are VERY cheap. I can get an unpainted hood for under $100. The fender is $36. Truth be told I bought it to drive for myself this summer so I'm not too worried about turning a profit quickly. I can use it while waiting for the right buyer.